in the discussion of political issues
were guided but the examples we choose
but also through the omission of
contrasting examples we are at the same
time mislead if you want to talk about
American imperialism the American Empire
and you focus entirely on disasters like
the Vietnam War Cambodia to some extent
Iraq oh there are other examples like
Japan and South Korea and so even though
the first set of examples are important
and they lead us down one path of
analysis with one set of considerations
there is a contrasting set of examples
there that we ignore at our peril we are
inclined to think about freedom of
speech and its significance in our
society with reference to examples of
people standing up against the
government using freedom of speech as a
way to limit and challenge the tyranny
of the government there was a very
significant example from the history of
England a couple of centuries ago now of
a scientist these were the days when
science was struggling to get
recognition trying to draw the
government's attention in the public
attention to the fact that cholera was
being spread through drinking water and
ultimately the cause of this was the
mixture of sewage with the source of
drinking water and a certain borough of
London at that time so ultimately people
are drinking their own diluted poo and
the government of England thought it was
in their interest to suppress this
information they would rather the public
not know that people not think about it
that this not be debated in Parliament
this inspired actually there's one
incident inspired many works of art
inspired many scientific essays it was
an example of the necessity of freedom
of speech for you know the man of
principle to stand up and speak truth to
power right that is one example of
freedom of speech being the canary in
the coal mine being the one man who's
willing to stand up and say people are
dying of
ha because we're letting our sewage
system mix with our drinking water
system whatever you want to say and even
if that's an embarrassment to the
government and even if that causes a
shock and revulsion on the public it's
absolutely necessary for that truth to
be broadcast and we can lionize it and
heroin you know most of what we're doing
here on YouTube
falls into a very different category of
the use and abuse of freedom of speech
and it actually illustrates the ways in
which freedom of speech is something
dangerous and noxious and that
reinforces the worst elements of human
nature helps all of us to justify an
excuse or bad pat our bad habits and
snuff so human potential on a massive
scale saw a video a couple of weeks ago
from a from a video game channel pat the
nes Punk and he was proudly reporting on
this scientific study
you know peer-reviewed scientific paper
he found and this was a scientific study
that both implicitly and explicitly
saying there's absolutely nothing wrong
with children growing up playing video
games for three hours a day so this
again feeds into this issue of the
selection of examples there are YouTube
channels I just checked now that are
promoting the use of the mind-altering
drug ayahuasca and those people they
managed to look around and find the few
medical doctors the few scientists who
will back up their [ __ ] excuses for
using this mind-altering drug and say oh
no don't worry about brain damage don't
worry about this even the people with
PhDs we're going to stand up and say oh
no no the experience you have is not
hallucination it's somehow something
much more meaningful than just taking a
hallucinogenic ELISA Natick so you know
those sources are out there let me tell
you something guys you're a student of
history travel back in time to the year
1917 just go through the archives there
was never a paucity of people with PhDs
who thought that communist dictatorship
in Russia was really good idea okay
there were always people with PhDs
representing every political extremist
ideology there are always new people
with PhDs representing an advancing
every form of insane quack science
including curing homosexuality through
electroshock therapy you just had to
look around for them and here on YouTube
the people who want to hear those
excuses that people who want to live in
a kind of feedback loop of self
reinforcing excuses to glamorize their
drug habit like ayahuasca they're gonna
find that here on YouTube and they're
gonna find voices both of them humble
personal experience of people saying
that this drug improved their lives and
they're gonna find videos of people with
PhDs and academic response wasn't and
the people who want to make excuses for
being video game addicts are literally
gonna find those few scientific papers
that say there's nothing wrong with
children growing up playing video games
for three hours a day and they're gonna
get into this self reinforcing loop for
all their bad habits now of course it's
a little bit surreal but we even find
that with the people who want to justify
eating bacon for breakfast every day
people want to eat poached eggs every
day and they manage to find these few
crappy scientific studies and these few
seeming experts who are willing to stand
up for an unbelievably unhealthy diet
and this also comes to self reinforcing
and when we deal with these examples we
have the chilling contrast to the use of
the state-sponsored suppression of
freedom of speech where the government
is right the government is right to make
it illegal to say that smoking
cigarettes is okay you know freedom of
speech has a limit at some point the
government says no you're not allowed to
have advertisement saying that
cigarettes are healthy and again if
you're actually a student of history if
you've been to the archives or been to a
library and looked at all the things
just when you look up old news magazines
if you go back far enough you can see
the ads that used to really say with no
humor that cigarettes are good for your
health and by this brand of cigarettes
cuz it was better for your health and
the other kind of cigarettes are this
kind of thing that use of freedom of
speech was wiped out what exactly
they're allowed to say on the label for
a box of cigarettes
this is incredibly tightly controlled
and it would be virtuous if the
government forced YouTube to crack down
on the YouTube channels and they are
myriad that are promoting the use of
ayahuasca
as a drug it would be completely
virtuous and completely positive if you
crack down on freedom of speech in this
form that's destroying people's lives
and the stories to the contrary are
probably out there somewhere probably if
you search for the needle in the
haystack you can find someone who's
sitting down on the front of the camera
and saying honestly as a kind of broken
man look they used to believe that this
drug liberated them and improve their
lives and only now they realize that
they were wrong and that this is just
it's just a hallucinogen it's just brain
damage and that all the religious and
philosophical pretensions that are
attached to this are no better than the
[ __ ] that meth heads that
methamphetamine addicts make up to
glorify their habit or cocaine addicts
or glue Huffer or alcoholics or anyone
else they look back and they were wrong
and they were wrong though that message
is out there somewhere but if you don't
have government regulation and
government restriction to freedom of
speech what you'll see do that do the
search for the term ayahuasca on YouTube
right now and you know you can change
the time you can search for videos the
word ayahuasca in them from this year
from this month from this day lasts 24
hours every day there's pro drug Pro
ayahuasca you know propaganda being
uploaded day after day after day and it
is it is changing people's eyes now
video games they have a Lobby that's
much more extensive and it influences
much more people's lives much more
profoundly all right so me and my
girlfriend talked a lot about this but
my girlfriend grew up with their own
kind of brain damage from playing video
games I would say that of myself - one
of the ways I was lucky it was just that
video games were so much more simplistic
when I was a child I mean I I literally
played the original Zork Zork was just
text no graphics I played the original
nethack just letters no graphic since we
had plates I played you know the
original space invaders I played really
really simple video games no as a kid
but it's very easy for me to imagine how
my girlfriend for her generation
so Nintendo 64 14 oh that video games
were more sophisticated more immersive
just more beautiful more glittering
there were more things there that appeal
to a child and draw them in and keep
their attention for hours and hours and
hours and yes you can find a
peer-reviewed paper that reassures you
that 3 hours a day doesn't have any of
the negative effects of quote-unquote
addiction and you can imagine you start
using a technical definition of what
addiction is and you start talking this
kind of thing if you go to school and
you do the dishes and you take a shower
and you eat dinner with your parents
there were not that many hours of the
day left for a kid for their
intellectual development their emotional
development for learning for their roles
if you are spending just three hours a
day playing video games this is a huge
huge impact on the development of a
child's mind and yes even on their
ability to to just talk their ability to
to verbalize to communicate in their own
first language is I think strictly
speaking [ __ ] by playing video games
for three hours day and what do you know
the news this week is that the
government of Communist China the
horrible dictatorship of Communist China
has come out and legislated if passed a
law that children all children in China
should only play video games for one
hour and a half per day maximum and they
are going to limit the number of hours
that children can log on to online video
games so that will be through various
platforms the equivalent of steam in
China or it's done they are gonna
prevent children from playing online
video games at least for more than an
hour and a half a day and hilariously if
you now search within YouTube the same
way that the ayahuasca people will just
tell you you are gonna find a course of
opinion saying what a terrible
oppressive thing this is that the
government of communist China is I guess
taking away the childhoods of of these
kids but only allowing them to play and
that's by the way that's on a school
night an hour and a half they're
allowing serve from memory three hours
on on the weekends or on holidays but if
it's a school night a maximum of an hour
and a half which again is still a
significant portion of your
hood being ported to playing video games
day after day selection of examples and
we examine a political problem its
fateful it guides the observations we
make and the conclusions we come to and
the considerations we fail to direct our
attention awards yes if you think of
freedom of speech entirely in terms of
the embattled individual standing up
against the oppression of the state then
it seems like a wholly good thing but if
you think of freedom of speech in terms
of a popularity contest in which people
can become more popular by affirming one
another's excuses mitigating one another
feel better for there were excuses about
why there are failure in life why they
indulge in their bad habits in life
whether that's alcohol or vision use
these examples then the really negative
the really threatening the really
menacing elements of freedom of speech
start to become evident and what we've
all been doing here on YouTube for the
last ten years I think it's fair to say
has been a popularity contest and one of
the main aspects of that popularity
carnist has again been giving people
good excuses for their bad habits I knew
a man I knew a man in the Green Party we
had a friendship that I would describe
as important to both of us but not
particularly close especially with men
in Western culture those are two
different things you have a friend who's
kind of important to you but you don't
really talk about your problems with
your parents or how you met your first
girlfriend or some [ __ ]
you see state you keep it a little bit
professional it's important but not that
close and I had 10 years in which ahead
and talked to this guy and then my first
wife got pregnant and at that time I
really made an effort to reach out to
brothers and sisters and cousins and a
few friends from the past who I hadn't
talked to in a long time say hey you
know I'm having a baby you know do you
want to talk on skype or do you wanna
have an email
but we don't do you want to do you want
to reconnect you know so it's during the
pregnancy before the format that I was
born and this guy was one of the people
I reached out to to say hey I don't
haven't heard from you in a long time
but you know we were once kind of
friends we were once important to each
other's lives what's what's going on you
in the 10 years I hadn't known him he
went from having a passing interest in
hippy Hinduism in terms of spirituality
he went from that into getting deeper
and deeper into the cult of ayahuasca
drug use he had a girlfriend who was in
it with him and she kept getting
accidentally pregnant thinking having
abortions there were a lot of little
little hints around the edges like the
head of what I kind of dissolute and
ill-managed life he was living and as he
progressed in the drug tourism of
ayahuasca he ended up getting invited to
go to one of the remote villages in
South America where the native peoples
culture was relatively intact and where
they've been using this drug
continuously in their own cultural terms
so I'm not even gonna digress to express
skepticism about that let's just pretend
there are still some remote villages in
the mountains of South America where
there are some tribal people who still
use this drug in a more authentic way
obviously there's a lot of money
involved with having white Western
tourists ship up and do this kind of
thing so how authentic it is is the
question for another time and you know
what broke him you know what broke his
faith and he did all the reading he did
all the research he came here on Google
and YouTube and he probably joined a
bunch of Facebook groups you know and he
filmed all these kinds of excuses for
his ban all these self-affirming you
know all these people telling you their
positive experiences but now this turn
their life around it made them a better
person and cured their depression and
all this [ __ ] right and when he was
talking to me just by coincidence I was
having a baby he was talking to the
first person ever who just said to it
like bro you are a drug tourist period
like and he this guy done other drugs I
was like bro you know that the
hallucinations you have on this
are not different they're not that
different from magic mushrooms or LSD
they're not that different from coming
down with a fever and who Lucy likes you
know this I know you've been like a new
person
I know you've been sick I know you've
elucidated for other reasons like you
know like you know these are just to
loosen Asians you know you're just a
drug yeah yeah that some reason to find
that message here on YouTube nor on
Facebook or Instagram for the thali with
you thing what broke his faith was going
to that village and seeing children
getting high on ayahuasca somehow all
the excuses when they're made for middle
aged wine aunts when they're made for
middle aged yoga moms trying to have a
second youth somehow the excuses when
they're made for sexy teenagers going to
a music festival and getting high
somehow on some level not rationally but
instinctually he felt this was wrong
when he was looking at six-year-olds and
eight-year-olds getting high on this
drug somehow his faith in the air SATs
religion that excuses for ayahuasca
started to come apart I believe in
censorship I believe that there should
be labels on bottles that say poison do
not drink when they contain poison and I
think it should be illegal to take a
bottle of coca-cola and pour the
coca-cola
and pour it instead a poison like
fertilizer that happens to be brown and
you know what cuz even if you just take
that bottle and leave it on a shelf
somewhere doesn't mean you and someone
might come along and drink it and not
know that it's poison I don't believe
that freedom of speech extends to the
front of a package of cigarettes we live
in an era when the censorship of what
can and cannot be said here on YouTube
is unbelievably intense
I put up a YouTube video that entirely
consisted of material that has already
appeared on CNN NBC other news
broadcasting networks footage of
political protests in China but it was
censored because I put it here on
YouTube YouTube censors political speech
of that kind much more tightly than CNN
NBC HBO then broadcast television right
there was no blood there was no gore
mostly as pictures of people holding
signs and chanting and protesting in the
streets and it showed police officers
you know cracking down of them that kind
of I don't have the freedom of speech to
upload that video on YouTube and yet
people seem to enjoy the freedom of
speech of actively promoting that you
sign up for drug tourism that absolutely
definitely as a scientific fact will
give you brain damage
[Music]